Fix: Glossary for Cloud (#36026)
mdn/content: files/en-us/glossary/cloud_computing/index.md

---

> title: Cloud Computing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Cloud computing
```

> slug: Glossary/Cloud_Computing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slug: Glossary/Cloud_computing
```

page-type: glossary-definition
---

{{GlossarySidebar}}

> **Cloud Computing** refers to the on-demand delivery of a wide range of computing services such as servers, storage, databases, networking, analytics, and intelligence via the Internet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Cloud computing** refers to the on-demand delivery of a wide range of computing services such as servers, storage, databases, networking, analytics, and intelligence via the Internet — also known as **cloud services**.
```

> This model enables faster innovation, flexible scalability, and significant cost savings. Users can access and utilize these services through a _pay-as-you-go_ pricing model, ensuring they only pay for what they use, making it a highly efficient and adaptable solution for businesses and individuals alike.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This model enables faster innovation, flexible scalability, and significant cost savings. Users can use cloud-based services through a _pay-as-you-go_ pricing model, ensuring they only pay for what they use, making them highly efficient and adaptable solutions for businesses and individuals alike.
```

> [!NOTE]

> > The {{glossary("Cloud")}} in Cloud Computing refers to the server infrastructure on which cloud services are built and hosted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The {{glossary("Cloud")}} in Cloud computing refers to the server infrastructure on which cloud services are built and hosted.
```

> ### Cloud Services

Reviewer: I'd suggest just deleting this section. I've added in the cloud services term to the opening paragraph in an earlier section, so this now seems repetitious. Also, the second sentence here isn't needed. That's pretty obvious to the target audience.

Cloud services are infrastructure, platforms, or software that are hosted by third-party providers and made available to users through the internet. Users can access cloud services with nothing more than a computer, operating system, and internet connectivity.

### Cloud Service Providers (CSP)

> Cloud Service Providers are the companies which provides these cloud services. Most popular cloud service providers are Google (Google Cloud Platform), Amazon AWS (Amazon Web Services), and Microsoft (Azure). They offer similar services with different price models, features and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Cloud service providers** are companies that provide cloud services, such as Google (Google Cloud Platform), Amazon AWS (Amazon Web Services), and Microsoft (Azure).
```

> ### Types of Cloud Computing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Types of cloud computing
```

> The three main types of cloud computing include Infrastructure as a Service(IaaS), Platform as a Service(PaaS), and Software as a Service(SaaS). Each type of cloud computing provides different levels of control, flexibility, and management so that you can select the right set of services for your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The three main types of cloud computing are Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), and Software as a Service (SaaS). Each type of cloud computing provides different levels of control, flexibility, and management.
```

#### Infrastructure as a Service

> IaaS provides virtualized computing resources over the internet, including servers, storage, and networking, allowing users to rent and manage the infrastructure they need which gives the users highest level of flexibility and control over the resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IaaS provides virtualized computing resources over the internet, including servers, storage, and networking, allowing users to manage their infrastructure. This gives users a high level of flexibility and control over the resources.
```

> > **Use case:** A company needing to scale its server infrastructure rapidly without owning physical servers might use IaaS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Use case:** A company needing to scale its server infrastructure rapidly without owning physical servers.
```

> 

Reviewer: Delete the space in between. Copy this pattern for the other sections too.

> **Examples:** Amazon Web Services (AWS EC2), Microsoft Azure Virtual Machines, Google Compute Engine (GCE)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Examples:** Amazon Web Services (AWS EC2), Microsoft Azure Virtual Machines, Google Compute Engine (GCE).
```

#### Platform as a Service

PaaS provides a platform allowing customers to develop, run, and manage applications without worrying about the underlying infrastructure (like servers, storage, and networking).

> > **Use case:** A developer who wants to focus on writing code and application logic, without managing servers or operating systems, would use PaaS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Use case:** A developer who wants to focus on writing code and application logic, without managing servers or operating systems.
```

> Examples: Google App Engine, Microsoft Azure App Service, Heroku, AWS Elastic Beanstalk

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Examples**: Google App Engine, Microsoft Azure App Service, Heroku, AWS Elastic Beanstalk.
```

#### Software as a Service

SaaS delivers software applications over the internet, which users can access via a web browser. The underlying infrastructure, platform, and data are all managed by the provider.

> > **Use case:** A business using SaaS doesn't need to install or manage software locally. Instead, they access the software (like email, CRM, or collaboration tools) directly from a web browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Use case:** A business using SaaS doesn't need to install or manage software locally. Instead, they access the software (like email, CRM, or collaboration tools) directly from a web browser.
```

> Examples: Google Workspace, Microsoft 365, Slack, Github, ChatGPT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Examples**: Google Workspace, Microsoft 365, Slack, Github, ChatGPT.
```

> ### Cloud Deployment MOdels

Reviewer: I would delete this whole section. I think the above section covering Iaas/PaaS/SaaS is useful, as it gives readers an idea of different types of Cloud service. But going into different cloud deployment models goes beyond providing a useful definition of cloud computing ad isn't needed in this article.

Author: Sure, I will remove it. Can we add the [NIST Definition of Cloud Computing](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/legacy/sp/nistspecialpublication800-145.pdf) under see also section? I think that document is some kind of standard but the contents are explained in other references also.

---
title: Cloud computing
slug: Glossary/Cloud_computing
page-type: glossary-definition
---

{{GlossarySidebar}}

**Cloud computing** refers to the on-demand delivery of a wide range of computing services such as servers, storage, databases, networking, analytics, and intelligence via the Internet — also known as **cloud services**.

This model enables faster innovation, flexible scalability, and significant cost savings. Users can use cloud-based services through a _pay-as-you-go_ pricing model, ensuring they only pay for what they use, making them highly efficient and adaptable solutions for businesses and individuals alike.

> ### Cloud Services

Reviewer 2: Try to remove as many of these headings as possible. Glossaries are short and don't need many subsections. Also pay attention that you must start from h2 and go down, not start from h3.

Author: Yes, I understand. Glossary should be small and I started this entry like that. But I had to add more content to it as requested by others. At the moment MDN doesn't have any resources related to Cloud and Cloud Computing. 

In future, it might be useful if MDN provides guides for Cloud topics related to Web dev as most of the current technologies are using Cloud servers for various purposes.
